And this video we are going to look into data conversion and that's an important thing to understand
because sometimes you get data in a specific version or in a specific type and you need it in a different
type to go on with your program and I will make a lot more sense as soon as we get more complex programs.
But here it already is quite easy to understand because we're going to look into converting a string
into an integer which is a whole number a string into a floating point number which is going to be a
float.
And then how to convert from an integer to a number which we already have seen.
But just for completion because we're going to cover that.
So let's go ahead and create a variable called a and that will contain the value of 5.
And to be to contain the value of 6.
Let's say we get that as a input from a user because if a user type something with his keyboard for
example then that will be a string usually.
User input is usually stored as a string.
And then if you want to use that as a number in order to calculate correctly you will need to convert
that.
So let's have a look at printing that out for us.
So let's print a plus b first.
So I'm going to run that.
And as you can see it's 56.
So five plus six is 56.
Very easy math right.
That's not correct.
It's just putting those two strings next to each other.
So we have the two strings and if we add them next or concatenate them they get this 56.
So if you want to change that if you want to actually get five plus six as a numbers added to each other
then you need to convert that.
And in order to convert a string into an integer so into a whole number you need to go ahead and use
the int function.
So there is this function called high end to your end which converts an string into an integer.
So now let's check it out again and we get the result of 11.
So what happened here is that both of our values which were strings before of are A and B variables
they were strings before but now we treat them as integers.
So we convert them into integers.
And that's why adding them to each other will simply apply the mathematical approach of just summation
which gives us this resolve of 11.
Now if we want to do the same thing with protein point numbers because for example if we enter 5.5 and
6.5 in here and tried to run that then we get this error.
It says Invalid literal for it with base 10 5.5 so it doesn't understand what is five point five is
supposed to mean in this context so it's not it doesn't know how to convert that because it can convert
it into an integer because integers only understand whole numbers.
So if you want to use that then you need to use a different approach.
So let's say we have those five point five and B is going to be six point five.
But again as strings.
So with the end of quotation marks we can see now they are strings.
If we print that and we want to have them as float then we want to or we have to use the float function.
So I'm going to say float a plus float b.
And what that will do is it will add them next to each other in a mathematical approach.
If we wouldn't have used that if we just said a plus be a plus b then we get five point five six point
five because it just concatenates the two strings to each other.
But then the other approach was with the floats and that's the one.
And if you use that then you use the correct mathematical calculation here.
Now if you want to go ahead and use an integer but as a string This is actually a string integer to
a string.
Then you can go ahead and do the following.
So let's say the age is 30 and we want to print something like high speed plus H plus years old something
like that.
If we run that we can do it.
It says must be s are not I.A. so must be a string not an integer.
We had that before right.
And you probably know how to solve that.
And that is by using the as t r or string function which converts the integer h into a string.
Now if we run that again we see I am 30 years old.
So now you've seen how to use it with very basic types.
And I can solve that or there.
But there is also something to consider when using lists so we can just convert them in the same way
that we did here we have to use a different approach and that's what we're going to look into and the
next video.
So see you there.